Add documentation for the UBI plugin (#7284)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _search-plugins/ubi/sql-queries.md

---
layout: default
title: Sample UBI SQL queries
parent: User behavior insights
has_children: false
nav_order: 7
---

# Sample UBI SQL queries

> These can be performed on an OpenSearch Dashboards/[Query Workbench]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/dashboards/query-workbench/) sandbox application: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can run the following sample SQL queries in an OpenSearch Dashboards [Query Workbench]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/dashboards/query-workbench/) sandbox application: 
```

[http://chorus-opensearch-edition.dev.o19s.com:5601/app/opensearch-query-workbench](http://chorus-opensearch-edition.dev.o19s.com:5601/app/opensearch-query-workbench)

## Queries with zero results

Queries can be executed on either the server-side (`ubi_queries`) or on the client-side (`ubi_events`).

### Server-side

The search server with UBI activated logs the queries and results; so, in order to find all queries with no results, 
the developer needs to search for empty `query_response_hit_ids`:
{: .note}

```sql
select
   count(*)
from ubi_queries 
where query_response_hit_ids is null

```

> ### Client event-side

Reviewer: Should this be client-side?

---
layout: default
title: Sample UBI SQL queries
parent: User behavior insights
has_children: false
nav_order: 7
---

# Sample UBI SQL queries

You can run the following sample SQL queries in an OpenSearch Dashboards [Query Workbench]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/dashboards/query-workbench/) sandbox application:  

> [http://chorus-opensearch-edition.dev.o19s.com:5601/app/opensearch-query-workbench](http://chorus-opensearch-edition.dev.o19s.com:5601/app/opensearch-query-workbench)

Reviewer: This link is unreachable to me. Also, please provide descriptive text for the link (where is the user going?) For example, `See the [sample application](link)`.

Reviewer: None of these work for me :(

Author: @kolchfa-aws, could you try pinging chorus-opensearch-edition.dev.o19s.com first?  If that doesn't work, could you try pinging 159.89.182.117 ?

```
 ping chorus-opensearch-edition.dev.o19s.com

Pinging chorus-opensearch-edition.dev.o19s.com [159.89.182.117] with 32 bytes of data:
Reply from 159.89.182.117: bytes=32 time=87ms TTL=44
Reply from 159.89.182.117: bytes=32 time=87ms TTL=44
Reply from 159.89.182.117: bytes=32 time=86ms TTL=44
Reply from 159.89.182.117: bytes=32 time=85ms TTL=44
```

Reviewer 2: I just tried it...   And it loaded.   I suspect that your corporate firewall may be blocking it...   
<img width="478" alt="image" src="https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/assets/22395/2ca9a968-6ed0-4ccd-b415-177d588e4017">

Reviewer: Ping works but accessing the website through the browser or via curl doesn't.

Reviewer: That said, the link checker is not complaining so it's probably the firewall.

add_to_cart|373
page_exit|142
user_feedback|123
404_redirect|123

The following query shows the distribution of margins across user actions:

```sql
select 
    action_name, 
    count(0) total,
    AVG( event_attributes.object.object_detail.cost ) average_cost,
    AVG( event_attributes.object.object_detail.margin ) average_margin
from ubi_events  
group by action_name
order by average_cost desc
```

The results include actions and the distribution across average costs and margins, as shown in the following table.

action_name|total|average_cost|average_margin
---|---|---|---
declined_product|395|8457.12|6190.96
item_click|690|7789.40|5862.70
add_to_cart|374|6470.22|4617.09
purchase|358|5933.83|5110.69
global_click|3555||
product_sort|3711||
product_hover|779||
page_exit|107||
on_search|5438||
brand_filter|3722||
user_feedback|120||
404_redirect|110||
view_search_results|3639||
type_filter|3691||

## Sample search journey

To find a search in the query log, run the following query:

```sql
select
  client_id, query_id, user_query, query_response_hit_ids, query_response_id, timestamp 
from ubi_queries where query_id = '7ae52966-4fd4-4ab1-8152-0fd0b52bdadf'
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following table shows the results of the preceding query:
```

> The following table shows the results of the preceding query:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following table shows the results of the preceding query.
```

ubi-demo|7ae52966-4fd4-4ab1-8152-0fd0b52bdadf|product_hover|INFO|orquesta soluciones uno-a-uno|a15f1ef3-6bc6-4959-9b83-6699a4d29845|2024-06-04 19:02:45.816
ubi-demo|7ae52966-4fd4-4ab1-8152-0fd0b52bdadf|item_click|INFO|innova relaciones centrado al usuario|a15f1ef3-6bc6-4959-9b83-6699a4d29845|2024-06-04 19:02:45.86
ubi-demo|7ae52966-4fd4-4ab1-8152-0fd0b52bdadf|add_to_cart|CONVERSION|engineer B2B platforms|a15f1ef3-6bc6-4959-9b83-6699a4d29845|2024-06-04 19:02:45.905
ubi-demo|7ae52966-4fd4-4ab1-8152-0fd0b52bdadf|purchase|CONVERSION|Purchase item 0884420136132|a15f1ef3-6bc6-4959-9b83-6699a4d29845|2024-06-04 19:02:45.913

<!-- vale on -->

## User sessions

To find more of the same user's sessions (with the client ID `a15f1ef3-6bc6-4959-9b83-6699a4d29845`), run the following query:

```sql
select
 application, event_attributes.session_id, query_id, 
 action_name, message_type, event_attributes.dwell_time,
 event_attributes.object.object_id, 
 event_attributes.object.description,
 timestamp
from ubi_events
where client_id = 'a15f1ef3-6bc6-4959-9b83-6699a4d29845'
order by query_id, timestamp
```

> The results are truncated to show a few sessions, as shown in the following table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The results are truncated to show a sample of sessions, as shown in the following table.
```

> The results are truncated to show a few sessions, as shown in the following table.

Reviewer: Revised to "sample"

ubi-demo|33bd0ee2-60b7-4c25-b62c-1aa1580da73c|23f0149a-13ae-4977-8dc9-ef61c449c140|on_search|QUERY|16.93674|||2024-06-04 19:03:50.62
ubi-demo|33bd0ee2-60b7-4c25-b62c-1aa1580da73c|23f0149a-13ae-4977-8dc9-ef61c449c140|global_click|INFO|25.897957|OBJECT-d350cc2d-b979-4aca-bd73-71709832940f|(96, 127)|2024-06-04 19:03:50.624
ubi-demo|33bd0ee2-60b7-4c25-b62c-1aa1580da73c|23f0149a-13ae-4977-8dc9-ef61c449c140|product_sort|SORT|44.345097|||2024-06-04 19:03:50.688
ubi-demo|33bd0ee2-60b7-4c25-b62c-1aa1580da73c|23f0149a-13ae-4977-8dc9-ef61c449c140|brand_filter|FILTER|19.54417|OBJECT-6c91da98-387b-45cb-8275-e90d1ea8bc54|supplier_name|2024-06-04 19:03:50.696
ubi-demo|33bd0ee2-60b7-4c25-b62c-1aa1580da73c|23f0149a-13ae-4977-8dc9-ef61c449c140|type_filter|INFO|48.79312|OBJECT-32d9bb39-b17d-4611-82c1-5aaa14368060|filter_product_type|2024-06-04 19:03:50.74
ubi-demo|33bd0ee2-60b7-4c25-b62c-1aa1580da73c|23f0149a-13ae-4977-8dc9-ef61c449c140|brand_filter|FILTER|19.54417|OBJECT-6c91da98-387b-45cb-8275-e90d1ea8bc54|supplier_name|2024-06-04 19:03:50.802

> ## List user sessions for users who logged out without any queries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## List user sessions for users who logged out without submitting any queries
```

---
layout: default

> title: Sample UBI SQL queries

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: Example UBI SQL queries
```

> title: Example UBI SQL queries

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: Sample UBI SQL queries
```

> parent: User behavior insights

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
parent: User Behavior Insights
```

has_children: false
nav_order: 20
---

> # Sample UBI SQL queries

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Example UBI SQL queries
```

from ubi_events
group by action_name
order by Total desc
```

The results include a distribution across actions:

action_name|Total
|---|---|
on_search|5425
brand_filter|3634
global_click|3571
view_search_results|3565
product_sort|3558
type_filter|3505
product_hover|820
item_click|708
purchase|407
declined_product|402
add_to_cart|373
page_exit|142
user_feedback|123
404_redirect|123

The following query shows the distribution of margins across user actions.

```sql
select 
    action_name, 
    count(0) total,
    AVG( event_attributes.object.object_detail.cost ) average_cost,
    AVG( event_attributes.object.object_detail.margin ) average_margin
from ubi_events  
group by action_name
order by average_cost desc
```

The results include actions and the distribution across cost and margins:

action_name|total|average_cost|average_margin
---|---|---|---
declined_product|395|8457.12|6190.96
item_click|690|7789.40|5862.70
add_to_cart|374|6470.22|4617.09
purchase|358|5933.83|5110.69
global_click|3555||
product_sort|3711||
product_hover|779||
page_exit|107||
on_search|5438||
brand_filter|3722||
user_feedback|120||
404_redirect|110||
view_search_results|3639||
type_filter|3691||

> ## Sample search journey

Reviewer 3: I believe they are conveying a sequence of events that follow a search, which is why they use 'journey'.

To find a search in the query log:

```sql
select
  client_id, query_id, user_query, query_response_hit_ids, query_response_id, timestamp 
from ubi_queries where query_id = '7ae52966-4fd4-4ab1-8152-0fd0b52bdadf'
```

client_id|query_id|user_query|query_response_hit_ids|query_response_id|timestamp
---|---|---|---|---|---
a15f1ef3-6bc6-4959-9b83-6699a4d29845|7ae52966-4fd4-4ab1-8152-0fd0b52bdadf|notebook|0882780391659|6e92c90c-1eee-4dd6-b820-c522fd4126f3|2024-06-04 19:02:45.728

> The `query` field from this `query_id` has the following nested structure:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `query` field in `query_id` has the following nested structure:
```
```suggestion
The `query` field from this `query_id` has the following nested structure:
```

ubi-demo|7ae52966-4fd4-4ab1-8152-0fd0b52bdadf|product_hover|INFO|orquesta soluciones uno-a-uno|a15f1ef3-6bc6-4959-9b83-6699a4d29845|2024-06-04 19:02:45.816
ubi-demo|7ae52966-4fd4-4ab1-8152-0fd0b52bdadf|item_click|INFO|innova relaciones centrado al usuario|a15f1ef3-6bc6-4959-9b83-6699a4d29845|2024-06-04 19:02:45.86
ubi-demo|7ae52966-4fd4-4ab1-8152-0fd0b52bdadf|add_to_cart|CONVERSION|engineer B2B platforms|a15f1ef3-6bc6-4959-9b83-6699a4d29845|2024-06-04 19:02:45.905
ubi-demo|7ae52966-4fd4-4ab1-8152-0fd0b52bdadf|purchase|CONVERSION|Purchase item 0884420136132|a15f1ef3-6bc6-4959-9b83-6699a4d29845|2024-06-04 19:02:45.913

<!-- vale on -->

## User sessions

To find more sessions from the same user (with the client ID `a15f1ef3-6bc6-4959-9b83-6699a4d29845`), run the following query:

```sql
select
 application, event_attributes.session_id, query_id, 
 action_name, message_type, event_attributes.dwell_time,
 event_attributes.object.object_id, 
 event_attributes.object.description,
 timestamp
from ubi_events
where client_id = 'a15f1ef3-6bc6-4959-9b83-6699a4d29845'
order by query_id, timestamp
```

> The results are truncated to show a few sessions:

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure what they mean by that. @epugh?

---
layout: default
title: Sample UBI SQL queries
parent: User behavior insights
has_children: false

> nav_order: 7

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
nav_order: 20
```

---

# Sample UBI SQL queries

> You can run the following sample SQL queries in an OpenSearch Dashboards [Query Workbench]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/dashboards/query-workbench/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can run sample UBI SQL queries in the OpenSearch Dashboards [Query Workbench]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/dashboards/query-workbench/).
```

> A demo workbench with synthetic data can be found here to query: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To query a demo workbench with synthetic data, see 
```

[http://chorus-opensearch-edition.dev.o19s.com:5601/app/opensearch-query-workbench](http://chorus-opensearch-edition.dev.o19s.com:5601/app/opensearch-query-workbench)

## Queries with zero results

> Queries can be executed on either the server-side (`ubi_queries`) or on the client-side (`ubi_events`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Queries can be executed on events on either the server (`ubi_queries`) or client (`ubi_events`) side.
```

> ### Server-side queries

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Server-side events
```
?

> The search server with UBI activated logs the queries and results; so, in order to find all queries with no results, 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The UBI-activated search server logs the queries and results, so in order to find all queries with no results, 
```

the developer needs to search for empty `query_response_hit_ids`:

> {: .note}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```
I'm not sure why this is a note if it is the only paragraph in the section?

```sql
select
   count(*)
from ubi_queries 
where query_response_hit_ids is null

```

### Client-side events

Although it's trivial to find queries with no results on the server side, you can also obtain the same result by querying the event attributes that were logged.
Both client- and server-side queries return the same results.

The search client is responsible for populating the `result_count` field.
{: .note}

```sql
select
    count(0)
from ubi_events
where event_attributes.result_count > 0
```

## Trending queries

> Trending queries can be found with either following query.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Trending queries can be found with either of the following queries.
```

### Server-side

```sql
select 
	user_query, count(0) Total  
from ubi_queries
group by user_query
order by Total desc
```

### Client-side

```sql
select 
	message, count(0) Total  
from ubi_events
where 
	action_name='on_search' 
group by message 
order by Total desc
```

Both queries return the distribution of search strings:

Message|Total
|---|---|
User Behavior Insights|127
best Laptop|78
camera|21
backpack|17
briefcase|14
camcorder|11
cabinet|9
bed|9
box|8
bottle|8
calculator|8
armchair|7
bench|7
blackberry|6
bathroom|6
User Behavior Insights Mac|5
best Laptop Dell|5
User Behavior Insights VTech|5
ayoolaolafenwa|5
User Behavior Insights Dell|4
best Laptop Vaddio|4
agrega modelos intuitivas|4
bеуоnd|4
abraza metodologías B2C|3

## Event type distribution counts

To make a pie chart widget visualizing the most common events, run the following query:

```sql
select 
	action_name, count(0) Total  
from ubi_events
group by action_name
order by Total desc
```

> Results include distribution across actions:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The results include a distribution across actions:
```

action_name|Total
|---|---|
on_search|5425
brand_filter|3634
global_click|3571
view_search_results|3565
product_sort|3558
type_filter|3505
product_hover|820
item_click|708
purchase|407
declined_product|402
add_to_cart|373
page_exit|142
user_feedback|123
404_redirect|123

> The following query shows distribution of margins across user actions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following query shows the distribution of margins across user actions.
```

```sql
select 
    action_name, 
    count(0) total,
    AVG( event_attributes.object.object_detail.cost ) average_cost,
    AVG( event_attributes.object.object_detail.margin ) average_margin
from ubi_events  
group by action_name
order by average_cost desc
```

> Results include actions and the distribution across cost and margins:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The results include actions and the distribution across cost and margins:
```

action_name|total|average_cost|average_margin
---|---|---|---
declined_product|395|8457.12|6190.96
item_click|690|7789.40|5862.70
add_to_cart|374|6470.22|4617.09
purchase|358|5933.83|5110.69
global_click|3555||
product_sort|3711||
product_hover|779||
page_exit|107||
on_search|5438||
brand_filter|3722||
user_feedback|120||
404_redirect|110||
view_search_results|3639||
type_filter|3691||

## Sample search journey

> Find a search in the query log:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To find a search in the query log:
```

		"size": 25,
		"query": {
			"query_string": {
				"query": "(title:\"notebook\" OR attr_t_device_type:\"notebook\" OR name:\"notebook\")",
				"fields": [],
				"type": "best_fields",
				"default_operator": "or",
				"max_determinized_states": 10000,
				"enable_position_increments": true,
				"fuzziness": "AUTO",
				"fuzzy_prefix_length": 0,
				"fuzzy_max_expansions": 50,
				"phrase_slop": 0,
				"analyze_wildcard": false,
				"escape": false,
				"auto_generate_synonyms_phrase_query": true,
				"fuzzy_transpositions": true,
				"boost": 1.0
			}
		},
		"ext": {
			"query_id": "7ae52966-4fd4-4ab1-8152-0fd0b52bdadf",
			"user_query": "notebook",
			"client_id": "a15f1ef3-6bc6-4959-9b83-6699a4d29845",
			"object_id_field": "primary_ean",
			"query_attributes": {
				"application": "ubi-demo"
			}
		}
	}
}
```

In the event log, `ubi_events`, search for the events that correspond to the preceding query (whose query ID is `7ae52966-4fd4-4ab1-8152-0fd0b52bdadf`):

```sql
select 
 application, query_id, action_name, message_type, message, client_id, timestamp
from ubi_events
where query_id = '7ae52966-4fd4-4ab1-8152-0fd0b52bdadf'
order by timestamp
```

<!-- vale off -->

> Results include all events that are associated with the user's query:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The results include all events that are associated with the user's query:
```

ubi-demo|7ae52966-4fd4-4ab1-8152-0fd0b52bdadf|product_hover|INFO|orquesta soluciones uno-a-uno|a15f1ef3-6bc6-4959-9b83-6699a4d29845|2024-06-04 19:02:45.816
ubi-demo|7ae52966-4fd4-4ab1-8152-0fd0b52bdadf|item_click|INFO|innova relaciones centrado al usuario|a15f1ef3-6bc6-4959-9b83-6699a4d29845|2024-06-04 19:02:45.86
ubi-demo|7ae52966-4fd4-4ab1-8152-0fd0b52bdadf|add_to_cart|CONVERSION|engineer B2B platforms|a15f1ef3-6bc6-4959-9b83-6699a4d29845|2024-06-04 19:02:45.905
ubi-demo|7ae52966-4fd4-4ab1-8152-0fd0b52bdadf|purchase|CONVERSION|Purchase item 0884420136132|a15f1ef3-6bc6-4959-9b83-6699a4d29845|2024-06-04 19:02:45.913

<!-- vale on -->

## User sessions

To find more sessions from the same user (with the client ID `a15f1ef3-6bc6-4959-9b83-6699a4d29845`), run the following query:

```sql
select
 application, event_attributes.session_id, query_id, 
 action_name, message_type, event_attributes.dwell_time,
 event_attributes.object.object_id, 
 event_attributes.object.description,
 timestamp
from ubi_events
where client_id = 'a15f1ef3-6bc6-4959-9b83-6699a4d29845'
order by query_id, timestamp
```

> Results are truncated to show a few sessions:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The results are truncated to show a few sessions:
```

173_39d4cbfd-0666-4e77-84a9-965ed785db49|f9795e2e-ad92-4f15-8cdd-706aa1a3a17b_2206|1
173_39d4cbfd-0666-4e77-84a9-965ed785db49|f3c18b61-2c8a-41b3-a023-11eb2dd6c93c_2207|1
173_39d4cbfd-0666-4e77-84a9-965ed785db49|e12f700c-ffa3-4681-90d9-146022e26a18_2210|1
173_39d4cbfd-0666-4e77-84a9-965ed785db49|da1ff1f6-26f1-49d4-bd0d-d32d199e270e_2208|1
173_39d4cbfd-0666-4e77-84a9-965ed785db49|a1674e9d-d2dd-4da9-a4d1-dd12a401e8e7_2216|1
172_875f04d6-2c35-45f4-a8ac-bc5b675425f6|cc8e6174-5c1a-48c5-8ee8-1226621fe9f7_2203|1
171_7d810730-d6e9-4079-ab1c-db7f98776985|927fcfed-61d2-4334-91e9-77442b077764_2189|1
16_581fe410-338e-457b-a790-85af2a642356|83a68f57-0fbb-4414-852b-4c4601bf6cf2_156|1
16_581fe410-338e-457b-a790-85af2a642356|7881141b-511b-4df9-80e6-5450415af42c_162|1
16_581fe410-338e-457b-a790-85af2a642356|1d64478e-c3a6-4148-9a64-b6f4a73fc684_158|1

<!-- vale on -->

You may be interested in users with multiple logouts without submitting a query. The following query lets you see which users do this the most:

```sql
select 
    client_id, count(0) EventTotal
from ubi_events
where action_name='logout' and query_id is null
group by client_id
order by EventTotal desc
```

> Following are user's client id's and the number of logouts without any queries.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following table shows user's client id's and the number of logouts without any queries.
```
